# get started

## introduction
Crystal is a framework for php programming language based on mvc architecture for web development.
mvc stands for model view controller, a way to write more extensible software
Crystal is open source and free. Its advantages are its compactness and simplicity, while also being strong and fast. Using a framework for software development will greatly help the development and security of web applications.
Crystal is the right option for you if you want to have the tools to provide you with one of the simplest features.


# What is MVC?
if you don't know what is MVC, read [this link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller)

# create new project
You need to use a composer to create a crystal project. If you don't know what a composer is, go to http://getcomposer.org
To create a new project you must enter the following command in the terminal:

`
$ composer create-project crystalphp/project projectname
`

After executing the above command a folder called projectname will be created in the path you opened the terminal that is your project.

Let's examine its contents and see the structure of the project.


# project template
Crystal project structures are generally composed of the following folders, each of which contains part of the project:
* app: There are several important project files in this folder
* controllers: The controllers are here
* forms: The forms are here
* jobs: Any file in this folder will run automatically
* middlewares: The middleware is here
* Migrations: Migrations are the makers of the database tables here
* models: The database models are here
* public: All files and folders that users can access via http are here
* resources: The css and js files and views are here
* storage: This is a temporary local folder that Crystal uses as a temporary location to store some data
* vendor: This folder also belongs to the composer


# Start the Development server


Let's now run the project. go to the project directory at the terminal and run the following command:

`$ php crystal start`

Now in your browser, go to `http://localhost:8000`. If a purple plate is written in, along with a few links, your project is healthy and ready to use :)




