# Controllers
As you know, the `app/routes.php` file is an important file that contains almost all of the things we do on different pages of our site. But if we have a huge project that has a lot of pages and a lot of work on each of those pages, then we find that the `app/routes.php` file is very busy.
In fact, the controllers are here to help us. Controllers are things that allow us to do everything in a single path, move them, and just call them in the `app/routes.php` file, and so the main code of our program in the file routes.php does not shrink and gets more organized.

# Working With Controllers
All `controllers` in the crystal, limiting the place of control of the `controllers` that can see a controller when viewing, we can see a controller. HomeController.php`
In fact, controllers have the ability to control: logically, we build a controller for each part of our site. For example, all employees are sufficient to reach you. Or all employees can install as our site articles in ArticleController. Each controller has a clear definition and can provide a different approach, each of these functions can be closed to pass on to the router. And if you would like a router to be positioned to control a shutdown, read the name controller and the technical function as follows:

##### HomeController.php:
```php
<?php

namespace Controllers;

use Crystal\Controllers\Controller;
use Crystal\Http\Request;

class HomeController extends Controller{
    public function index(){
        return 'here is the main page of site';
    }
    
    public function about(){
        return 'this is about';
    }
}
```


##### routes.php:
```php
<?php

$router->get('/' , 'HomeController@index');         // this run a index function in HomeController class
$router->get('/about' , 'HomeController@about');    // this run a about function in HomeController class


// algo:
$router->any('/path/to/some/place' , 'ControllerName@functionName');
```


### some thing about controllers functions
- this functions should be public
- all of things about closures passed to the router is for them


## How To create a new Controller?
In our project, we only have HomeController by default. To build a new controller in your project, you need to execute the following command in terminal in your project directory:

`$ php crystal make controller NameOfTheController`

The build controller file is built into `controllers/NameOfTheController.php`. now you can start coding in it.
