# Exception Handling
Errors may occur in any application. Crystal lets you easily manage errors.
In crystal projects, the `app/ExceptionHandler.php` file is responsible for error handling. The contents of this file are as follows:

```php
<?php

namespace App;

use Crystal\Exceptions\BaseException;

class ExceptionHandler{
	public function report(BaseException $ex){
		return $ex->report();
	}

	public function handle(BaseException $ex){
		return $ex->render();
	}
}
```



There are two functions in this class. Let's first get to the `render` function. But first of all, let's create an error in our program. For example, do this in the `routes.php` file:


```php
<?php

gffhjhjghjyfg // the syntax error

$router->any('/' , function(){
    return view('hello');
});
```


Now run the server and enter the `/` page of the site. What do you see A page with a red background and below the contents of the file `routes.php` is also marked with an error line. And there is an error in the red text box. This is an error page in Crystal. Can I customize this page? Yes. This is done in the `render` function in ExceptionHandler. In fact, what is returned in this function is shown to the user. Consider this example:


```php
<?php

namespace App;

use Crystal\Exceptions\BaseException;

class ExceptionHandler{
	public function report(BaseException $ex){
		return $ex->report();
	}

	public function handle(BaseException $ex){
		return 'Error:' . $ex->message();
	}
}
```


The input defined for this function is `BaseException`. There is all the error information in this object inheriting from php Exception itself and all of its behaviors.
Also the `render` function in` BaseException` returns a html page (the same as the crystal error page).


# Exception Reporting
We now turn to the `report` function in ExceptionHandler.
This function is for reporting an error.
If you call `BaseException` on this function call the `report` function, it reports an error.
Reports are placed in `storage/error-reports` as an html file.





# Configuration
A configuration can be performed for errors. This configuration is used when you want to move the project to the server. Errors should not be displayed to users if the project is on the server. To do this, you need to set `app_debug` to `false` from `app/config/app.php`. In this case the errors will not be displayed to users. And instead the error code 500 is displayed to the user.

#### app/config/app.php:

```php
<?php

return [
    'app_status' => env('APP_STATUS'),
    'app_debug' => env('APP_DEBUG'),

    'app_name' => env('APP_NAME'),
    'app_url' => env('APP_URL'),

    'cache_default_life_time' => 604800,
    'clean_views_output' => false,
];
```

### NOTE:
The `env` function receives a key and extracts it from the `.env` file. This is for the convenience of working with different configurations. For example, here's the `APP_DEBUG = true` option in the file `.env`.




